**Data presentation:** 
This project is analyzing data of the five largest most popular tech stocks FAANG which are Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix and Google and comparing it to S&P-500. We illustrate the historical relationship between volatility and average returns and assess whether active stock-picking would have been beneficial over the last five years.

**Empirical Analysis**
To do so, we have been using trade data from The Investors Exchange containing open, high, low, close and volume for the period April 1st, 2014 to January 1st, 2019. Table 1 presents the mean prices for FAANG + S&P-500 in USD. 
Figure 1 shows the closing price evolution for Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google and S&P-500 from April 1st, 2014 to January 1st, 2019. The general tendency is that the closing prices i.e. the stock values are increasing over the period. 
In the first period from 2014-2017 stocks closing prices are growing steadily. From 2017 to mid-2018 the growth increases for all the stocks before the FAANG stocks suddenly decreases by more than 20 pct.
The reason for the decrease in mid-2018 is as shown as S&P-500 in the graph generally decreases due to fear that the nine-year bull market was losing steam. However, the tech stocks that had been seen as a safe bet decreased even more than the general market due to disappointing market forecasts, which lead to fear of a new tech bubble.
The main positive outlier is Amazon which experiences much higher growth rates than the other stocks but also a steeper decline in absolute values.
The main negative outlier is Facebook who suffered especially hard with the stock falling more than 38 pct. From its all-time high in July, this was due to scandals regarding data breaches and general immoral business tactics coupled together with slowing growths.
Figure 2 shows the demeaned stock prices. The demeaned stock prices are found by subtracting the sample mean from each observation for each stock and S&P-500, which makes it possible to look at the stock deviations from the mean, which in figure 2 is illustrated as zero. 
It is noted that both Amazon and Google are quite volatile around their own means whereas the remaining stocks are more centered around their own means - volatility is a measure of dispersion around the mean or average return of a security. The standard deviation for each stock and S&P-500 has been calculated in Table 3, which shows standard deviation of the closing price in the period 2014 to 2019. 
The results are that Apple’s standard deviation is 38, Amazon’s is 478, Facebook’s is 40, Google’s is 214, Netflix’ is 97 and S&P-500 is 35. The results from Amazon and Google are in line with our results from Figure 2 which showed that they were the two most volatile stocks. The results also show that S&P-500 has the lowest standard deviation which supports our financial theory that a lower expected return should yield a lower standard deviation, which also can be seen in figure 4 where Netflix and Amazon have had a growth rate above 400 pr. Cent and nearly 350 pr. Cent respectively. While S&P-500 have had the lowest growth rate for the same time period just below 50 pr. Cent. 
Comparing the table with standard deviation and figure 4, note especially Google: this stock has a relative high standard deviation but comes with the lowest growth rate for the FAANG-stocks, implying high risk – low return. Google have only grown less than double of the safest stock S&P-500, whereas Netflix has the highest growth rate but with much lower standard deviation making this stock much preferable compared to Google. Lastly we note that Apple and S&P-500 have the lowest and somehow the same standard deviation but Apple has grown almost the double of S&P-500. This imply that you can get almost the double return for the same risk as S&P-500 stock-picking Apple. 
Further looking at figure 3, which show the first-difference we clearly see that Google and Amazon shows biggest differences, which support our conclusion that these stocks are more ‘’unsafe’’ implying a higher risk if stock-picking comparing to choosing the other FAANG-stocks or the S&P-500 index. Especially for the last observations the risk becomes higher. 

**Conclusion**
We find that there exists a trade-off between volatility and return in line with what standard financial theory predicts. This implies that your portfolio could have beaten the S&P-500 index over the five-year period 2014 to 2019 by stock-picking single FAANG assets. However, the higher returns come with higher volatility, which is for the person to choose what degree of risk averse he/she is.